# variational-quantum-dynamics
This is a variational quantum algorithm (VQA) for simulating non-Markovian quantum dynamics in the condensed phase environment. We integrate the [Adam optimization algorithm](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1412.6980) as the classical optimizer for the parameterized quantum circuit in order to minimize a cost function, where the model Hamiltonian is that of a quantum system that is linearly coupled to a harmonic bath. The parameters to be updated are rotation angles, which are first solved for numerically using Runge-Kutta 8, and then  with the VQA, so the two results can be compared to determine the accuracy of the algorithm. The output of the algorithm, when plotted, shows the time-evolution of the wavefunction of the system

### Files Included

The following files are included in this repository:

- VQD_MPI.py
    - This is a program which is scaled for use on a computer cluster or supercomputer using MPI. The output produced is in the form of .csv files, which can be plotted using one of the other files included, VQD_MPI_Plotter.py

- VQD.py
    - This is an old version of the program without MPI integration and intended for local use. The output produced by this file is a plot generated using Matplotlib.

- VQD_MPI_Plotter.py
    - This Python script will plot the output of VQD_MPI.py, given that the user updates the .csv file names in the script appropriately. 

- VQD_MPI_Plot_Example.png and VQD_Plot_Example.png
    - These are sample plots generated by each of the files listed above.

